Sri Lanka enjoyed a much more fruitful day on the field on Day two of the first Test against India. But such was the visitors' dominance on the opening day, that they still enjoyed a huge advantage at Stumps on Day 2. With the ball, however, India bowled like champions to leave the hosts reeling.

India had amassed a daunting 399/3 on the first day, but could only manage 201 for seven in the first half of the day to be bowled out for 600. If a mammoth score wasn't daunting enough, India's pace bowlers rattled the Sri Lanka top order with quick strikes before the spinners came into play. By the end of day's play, Sri Lanka were precariously placed at 154 for 5, still 446 runs behind India's total. Upul Tharanga stroked an assertive 64 off 93 balls to keep the hosts afloat, while Angelo Mathews survived a few nervous moments against the spinners enroute to a battling unbeaten 54.

India would have happily taken 600 before the start of the game, but given that they had racked up 399 for the loss of only three wickets and had a heap of attacking batsmen to follow, they would have been disappointed to be cleaned up for 600. They weren't able to go down on their own terms, but having had Sri Lanka chasing leather for nearly one and a half days had its impact.

Dimuth Karunaratne was caught plumb in front by a Umesh Yadav delivery that swung in a little. His desperate review came as a shocker. Danushka Gunathilaka, the debutant, and Upul Tharanga smashed the pacers for a number of boundaries just before Tea to give Sri Lanka some hope.

In the post-Tea session, Sri Lanka's hopes crumbled like a used paper receipt. Danushka Gunathilaka cut a seemingly innocuous Mohammed Shami delivery straight to Shikhar Dhawan at slip. There were two changes that led to his downfall. India had used Dhawan as a lone slipper, stationed at second slip, late in the last session and saw the ball slip through the gap between him and the 'keeper. So when Shami came on to replace Umesh, Kohli added himself to the slip cordon and asked Dhawan to move to first slip. The change of bowler and the addition of a slip worked wonders for India. Gunathilaka was snapped up, and in the same over, Shami had Kusal Mendis out caught at first slip as well - this time the ball moving away just enough to catch the edge.

Tharanga, at the other end, was hitting the ball beautifully. He brought up his fifty off just 44 balls, and had already hit 10 boundaries. The spinners, however, were troubling both him and Mathews consistently. The indecision against the spinners finally cost Tharanga his wicket. He jumped down the track to counter Jadeja's spin, but ended up hitting the ball to Abhinav Mukund at silly mid off. Mukund's return was quick, but Tharanga made it back to the crease with the dive. Unfortunately for him, the bat bounced up when Saha broke the stumps and Tharanga was run-out for 64.

Mukund was into the action again soon, plucking the ball inches off the ground to dismiss Niroshan Dickwella for eight and give R Ashwin a richly-deserved first wicket. A late silver lining was Mathews's fifty, but the cloud Sri Lanka are under must be so dark, they would not have noticed at all.

Earlier in the day, Sri Lanka put in a much stronger performance with the ball to bowl India out for 600. Nuwan Pradeep continued his impressive work from the opening day to take a maiden five-wicket haul in Tests. He ended with six for 132. Lahiru Kumara made up for his horror show with some aggressive bowling and picked up three wickets in the bargain.

For India, Cheteshwar Pujara resumed from his overnight score of 144 and soon brought up his 150. On 15, he edged Pradeep to the 'keeper to give the Lankans a much-needed breakthrough. Ajinkya Rahane followed soon after, for 57, edging Kumara to Karunaratne at first slip. R Ashwin was masterly during his cameo, timing the ball well and hitting boundaries regularly as India closed in on the 500-run mark. He was eventually out for 47, but Hardik Pandya proved to be a useful number 8 as he smashed an 49-ball fifty on debut to kick start his Test career with fond memories.